In this section, we are going to learn about
telnet and ssh.
What is the function of telnet and ssh?
Before we talk about telnet and ssh, we need
to remember that if we want to configure cisco
devices, we need a console cable.
In packet tracer, we can configure the cisco
router or switch using tab CLI like this,
but in the real device, we need to use a console
cable.
Let’s try it, in cisco packet tracer, this
blue cable is console cable.
So here let’s connecting the router to the
pc using console cable.
In the pc choose rs232.
This is a serial port in the pc, and then
in the router let’s choose console port.
Next, to remote the router, we can open the
pc, desktop, and then open the terminal.
Here let’s just choose ok.
Okay here we have successfully remote the
router using console cable.
So we can configure the router from here.
The point is, if we want to configure the
cisco devices, we need to connecting the cisco
devices to our computer using console cable.
This is means if we want to configure the
cisco devices,
we need to come to the location where is the cisco devices.
Let’s say the cisco devices is in the data
center, so every time we need to configure
the cisco devices, we need to come to Data
Center.
Absolutely this is not effective, let’s
say we are in the vacation in another city,
and suddenly there is a problem with our network
so we need to check it in the cisco devices,
there is impossible to go to Data Center because
we are still in another city.
To solve this problem, we can use telnet or
ssh.
With telnet or ssh, we can remote the cisco
devices using network.
For example here let’s say we want to remote
from pc vlan 10 in the room 2 to the router.
This is possible using telnet or ssh.
This is also work for the Data Center case.
Let’s say we are in the another city and
need to remote the cisco devices in Data Center.
This is possible using telnet or ssh.
So we don’t need to come to Data Center
again every time we need to configure the
cisco devices.
But we can use telnet or ssh.
So usually console cable is only used to doing
initial configuration,
after we configure the ip address and enable telnet or ssh, we
no longer need to use console cable
to configure the cisco router or switch, we can use telnet
or ssh.
Okay I think enough for this video,
in the next video we are going to learn how to configure telnet.
Thankyou for watching and see you on the next
video.